this is one of the great things about
live streaming is I get questions and
topics and suggestions I would never
think of speaking on but sometimes
they're actually meaningful to me so the
question was about whether or not I
think aliens would be vegan if aliens
come to earth but for me this sparks off
a different set of questions I grew up
with a lot of lies
a lot of lies in my family a lot allies
in politics nationalist lies too so you
know my girlfriend year is American but
Canada has its own crummy form of
nationalism well if you grew up in
Canada you get taught the Canada's the
greatest country in the world and
various hard to believe ways I mean join
the Canadian military they were trying
to tell me all the ways in which the
Canadian Army was like the best they
were not very crazy it was like really
really you think the US Marine Corps
recruiter across the street it's funny
you're like I grew up with lies of
various kinds and one that I figured out
quite late in life you know one of the
lies that was a mess that I realized was
I was basically everything I was taught
about space exploration the future of
human industry in space I guess you'd
say and the plausibility of interstellar
travel interplanetary travel
interactions as aliens and that kind of
thing because I'm not just talking about
like like TV shows like Star Trek or
something the textbooks at the science
textbooks I had what I was taught in
school really made it out to be like a
simple scientific fact that within my
lifetime human beings were gonna be
dragging asteroids from the asteroid
belt to earth and breaking them up and
mining them you know I remember the
illustrations these beautiful
illustrations of this you know and of
course it seems attainable it's like
well you know so many decades ago people
went to the moon now we're putting a
probe on Mars it for a child especially
when you're taught that from an early
age again and again I mean some people
find it easy to leave the Canada's the
greatest country in the world
but it's easier to believe that people
are gonna be mining asteroids or even
that we're gonna be interacting with
aliens and it was pretty late in life
I had the kind of you know the twig
snapped and I realized space aliens for
my generation are just as ridiculous as
elves 500 years ago you know some of the
low is their more ridiculous
I mean elves but theory elves are just a
creature in the forest you don't see
that often no like if the forest exists
you get believe in it's something like
an elf that was the you know that was a
shock I mean those something's much
other you know I didn't think of space
Islands and again I guess I should be
clear it's not the point is not that
somewhere in the universe impossibly far
away of course evolution could happen on
some other planet on some other star the
point is whether or not it's plausible
or possible in any way for us to travel
to that planet or vice versa for us to
interact with or communicate with them
and indeed I mean I saw a youtube video
recently just getting into the number of
tons of dynamite that it would take to
move an asteroid from the asteroid belt
to the earth and you can draw a diagram
here's the size of the asteroid here's
the size of the massive of TNT or any
other explosives and it's ridiculous you
know when it's you know and that's not
still this day I assume that's not what
we're teaching children we're not
teaching children space aliens and space
travel this is really a figment of the
imagination instead we're teaching them
this is the greatest possible use of
taxpayers dollars you know what I mean
that NASA is paving a golden road to
exactly these impossible things yeah I
have thought about this if vegan if okay
so if an alien is advanced enough to
make it to planet Earth I don't you know
I would hope that they would be I would
hope that they would have reached a
level of intelligence and peace and
harmony within their culture to be vegan
but I don't know what if you have a race
of aliens that are is more similar to
the blue whale that yes krill you know
blue whales will never be vegan you know
yeah I've also you know if if they are
intelligent enough to
make it here maybe they would also just
see it earth as a resource to mine so
yeah maybe maybe not at all maybe not at
all possible okay I give you another
example they eat anything on our planet
anyways but look so you know the website
PayPal the multi-millionaire founder of
the website PayPal he has this program
to colonize Mars and there's so much
wrong with it and again it's the easiest
thing to show children I saw in science
textbooks pictures of people like
farming on Mars right and they're not
telling you the soil on Mars is not soil
the soil on Mars contains the same stuff
women used to bleach their hair blonde
yeah
hydrogen peroxide right it's completely
but doesn't matter if you pour water on
the soil in Mars
it will fizz up due to the hydrogen
peroxide it's like no this is alien in a
profound chemical sense so again like
you know Mars is right next door to
Earth is the same solar system saying
you know we have a lot in common with
Mars and yet really if you just do a
cost-benefit breakdown it would be
easier for us to have a an orbiting you
know space platform around Mars than to
ever build a colony on the surface of
Mars there is just no advantage we can't
like not only is it that you can't
breathe the air like the gases and
chemicals and what the soil is made of
to say it's toxic to human life is an
understatement
it's totally antithetical to our
existence so when you understand that
which again I didn't understand as a
joke I was really told a bunch of lies
that made it seem like Mars is just the
next continent like you know Europeans
colonized North America and then the
next thing is Google ours and we're
shown these images constantly aliens
that are as human as elves are you know
I mean the same way an elf is basically
the same as a person except for a few
special features you know and you
realize okay so any life-form anything
like right well they're not gonna
they're not gonna breathe the same gas
as we breathe or you know
the issues of the food chain that would
exist ethically or otherwise just well
you mentioned you know it's beyond Delia
we were talking about dinosaurs the
other day trying to clone dinosaurs and
your interventioning that you you really
can't because they can't eat the food
that we have yeah they can't eat modern
plant life the plant the plants that
have evolved at this point yeah right
mara vegetations go right now alright so
if something like that actually used to
live on this earth can't ya be cloned to
survive today
yeah what are the chances that an alien
race would come here it'd be able to
decide to be vegan like Oh anyway look
obviously it's it's a it's a
hypothetical question that's lately been
popularized by ask yourself and vegan
gains because it's really asking if
aliens came here how would you want them
to behave right but I mean I think that
is a pretty ethically weak position
during the Vietnam War you know
Americans will have you know you
couldn't really just say to Americans
well if if Vietnam we're bombing America
how would you want them to behave you
can ask that question don't go it's not
a flawed question but where do you think
that conversation goes yeah it's like
okay well we can discuss what rules of
engagement or what ethical you laws we
would like the Vietnamese debate if they
were bombing America however the reality
the situation we're in is that American
bombing Vietnam yeah so you know where
do we go with this
I hope instant off to have interstellar
travel you know advanced enough to
figure out veganism or just not be not
via a species that would you know I told
you I mean this this is this is the
tragedy of human nature right it's like
well if you were the Conqueror of North
America you know how would you want to
be treated you know I mean if you were
being conquered how would you want the
Conqueror to treat you and it's
different when you're the one doing the
conquering you know what I mean that I
don't think that's a shallow tragedy in
human nature it's a profound tragedy
that we see again and again and again
and you know we can ask the question but
I think in some ways it leads us to them
answers and what I'm really ders did
morally whether we're talking about
bombing Vietnam or conquest or
colonization or current and ongoing wars
or bombing Mosul what I'm really
interested in are minimum standards not
you know optimal maximum aspirations you
know I mean I'm not really Durst in
what's perfect for Humanity or the
perfection of humanity I'm interested in
like okay if you use Agent Orange what
are the consequently what are the what
are the lowest standards were if you
break them there are consequences and
then then what are the consequences so I
mean you know and that comes out of my
my kind of ashen political realism
realist nihilistic experience with all
these examples here on planet earth but
yeah I guess that's really why I see the
question about space aliens as being
silly it's because we're not asking
about what uh what are the you know what
standards here but it's you know what so
it's a fantasy of how do we imagine
human culture civilization alien
civilization evolved to the highest
level to the highest point some optimum
achievement where because they've
they're capable of interstellar or space
travel they're capable of anything we
imagine how how would you imagine the
behaving why would you want them to
behave but yeah for all I know what I
would hope that they would be in but
probably not you know this is also
unlikely that it's you know that's a
wrap